Hello and welcome to another section here we are going to be building a snap chat clone so here I'm
on snap chats Web site you can sort of see how it works.
You're supposed to be able to take a picture of yourself.
In this case of video and you can select a friend that you want to send that to and then the friend
will be able to open up that snap and see what's going on there.
So as you can see in this video snap chats going to have about a million extra features that our app
is not going to have like all these chats and stickers stories videos things like that but this is what
our app is going to look like.
So we're going to come here we're going to have a nice log in the screen and we're going to make this
very simple to just have a go situation.
So if it's the very first time they've put in this e-mail in a password we're just going to say hit
the button and we'll create an account for you.
And if those already an account will log in that user so we know we've done this before but we're going
to adopt that style again.
So when a user signs in they'll be able to come to this home screen and if they want to log out they
can or they can say you know what I want to make a new snap snap is what we send to people it's basically
a picture with some text so if we say we want to send a new snap we can go ahead and choose an image
that we want to send.
So I have this nice little test image here I can add some sort of message or a note so I might just
say hello and I'm going to hit next then I can choose a user that I want to send this message to so
I'm going to send it to myself just so I can see if this works on the name that I sign in with.
Nick at test dot org.
So I'm going to go ahead and select that and oh oh my goodness look here at my home screen I can see
the snap that I just received so I'm going to go ahead and click on this.
I'm going to play that halo message that was sent with the snap and then also there's the picture that
was uploaded.
And look at this when we hit the back button then the snap disappear.
So that's one of the magical things about Snap chat is it's the idea that you send pictures and messages
to your friends but then those disappear after they view them.
So as soon as the user hits that back button boom the snap is gone.
OK.
So this is the app that we're building in something special that we're going to be doing here.
We're going to be building it with firebase which is Google's back end system in order to create apps
that need some sort of data to be moved you know from device to device and even if you want to upload
to storage you're going to see all the different pieces of firebase that were going to be touching in
here.
We're also going to be making this app in Scotland so that'll be interesting to you know apply Katelin
in a fully functional app here.
But as always I'd invite you to go ahead and try and get this app done by yourself.
A great learning experience especially with all this new stuff like firebase.
And you know making an app with cotland.
But up to you about how you want to handle that at the very least.
You know you can still go through with Java but do use them firebase back in.
So with that let's go ahead and get started on building this thing.
All right.
To go ahead and get started here let's create a new Android studio project I'm going to be calling this
one snap chat and go ahead make sure you got your domain and everything else set up.
I'm going to do include cotland support here.
I think it's important to see a full fledged app using cotland that will be fun to work with here so
let's go ahead and select that next Choose your API.
I'm going to go for the latest and greatest with API 26.
And then let's just go ahead and start with an empty activity.
And we want main activity for our first one.
So we'll go ahead and let that set up and while that's going we need to go ahead and get firebase set
up.
So again firebase This is back in service provided by Google it's very similar to parse.
It was a competitive Par's before Parsa was shut down I guess Parsa still alive because it's open source.
So I guess you could say that they are still you know competing with each other but it's a little bit
different now.
So let's go ahead in a new tab Let's go to firebase dotcom
and we'll go ahead and get started.
So you do need a Google account to go ahead and use this service.
So if you need to go ahead and sign in I've already done that here.
Looks like our banjo's Android studio project finished.
But once you are signed in here at firebase dot com let's go ahead and just go to the console.
This is where you can start new projects and get things going here.
So in firebase has an awesome implementation of walking you through how to start a new project here
and you can see I've worked on a couple of different apps here in the back end and snap chat a few times
but let's go ahead and make a new one so we're going to say add project and we have to go ahead and
give it a name and I'm going to call this snap chat and I'm just going to call it Orio so I know that
this is what we're working on so snapchat Oreo looks good and this apps that you make on firebase can
work for Android devices iOS devices and they even have the ability to work with a Web site.
So if you want to create like a custom back and through this you can do that too.
So it's pretty versatile.
And we'll go ahead and create this again I always sort of live in fear that fire base is going to suffer
the same fate as parts that one day it's just going to sort of poof and disappear because Google says
now this isn't profitable anymore but we'll see.
We'll see.
So you should get some sort of welcome page here.
I swear this changes all the time so might be a little bit different.
But you want to find wherever the option is to add firebase to your Android apps.
We'll go ahead and select on this then you need to go and get your package name which you can go back
to android studio and it should be at the top of your main activity.
So in my case that's commnet Zappy code does snap chat.
So I'll just go ahead and copy and paste that in.
Then you can provide an apt nickname if you want to.
I'm just going to call this snap chat Orio and specify here Android.
So you could have an iOS version and an android version if you want to.
So you know you can put that out there.
But again all these things can be changed later so you can do that if you want to.
We're not going to worry about the signing certificate so we'll just say register app then we need to
download this Google services that Jason and this is kind of a cool way to set up that basically has
all the keys that you need to work with this new app that you've just created.
So like it says we need to go ahead and add this into our app folder so we're going to go to Android
studio change this little option up top you know our little project viewer here change it to show Android
to project.
And inside we're going to open up our app folder here and that's where we want to bring is that outfielder's
so I'm going to take this download that I have and I'm going to bring it right here into the app folder.
Go ahead and add that you should see that Google services dash dot Jaison.
Now if you've downloaded this file multiple times make sure the one that you had just says Google services.
It's not like Google servers to Google services copy.
It needs to be exactly the name Google services because when firebase starts up that's what it's going
to be looking for.
So with that in place let's go ahead and hit continue then here's some great old information that we
have to add in order to download the firebase code in the SDK into our project.
So the first one is we're going to move on to the project level bill great.
So let's get back to android studio and here we're going to open up this bill duct cradle.
Remember this isn't in the app folder This is the project folder.
And let's go back.
So inside of the dependencies we want to add this line of code.
So when you're watching this the version might be different if you do ever have compatibility issues.
Maybe move back to the one that I'm referencing here 3.1 points zero but it's probably OK to go use
the latest and if you have issues you can always just change the inside of your cradle file.
So we're going to go inside of our dependencies here and we're going to add in this Google services
that's going to ask us to sync.
But there's one more thing that we have to add so we'll wait on that then we're going to copy this next
line of code and this goes inside of the app level.
Bill doc cradle it says put this on the bottom of the file.
So we're going to go over to inside of the app folder here build that cradle and I'm going to go all
the way down to the bottom and I'm going to paste in the supply plug in.
I always like to leave a blank space after it just to be safe here.
But with this after you've added these two lines the one inside of this build duct cradle and that one
we're going to go ahead and hit sync now and that's going to go out and get all the appropriate code
and bring it into our project.
So that's going to take a little bit of time and so we'll just go ahead and say finish here in order
to get this started.
So with that in place we now have a firebase app ready to go.
It's amazing how quickly that just happened if you've ever tried to make your own back and you know
how much of a chore that is to get rolling.
So we now want to move forward and add our log in page to our app.
All right so let's go ahead and move over to Android studio and we are going to design first our log
in page and then we'll move forward with adding some code to it.
So remember that we're going to make it sort of the seamless process so that the user can sign up or
log in.
Just all in one fell swoop.
We're going to make it very easy for them so let's delete the text view that's already there.
Then we're going to go ahead and we're going to add first to added text to our file so that user can
enter their username or their passwords we're going to put one up here.
And let's go ahead and center this.
And we wanted it to be connected to the top.
So we'll go ahead and have that map in another text.
Right below here and I want it to be pretty close to it's from there.
And let's go ahead and do a plus up to the top and I'm going to make that have 16 spaces just like it's
friend and let's center this.
Next we want to add a go button which is essentially either going to be sign up or log in depending
on the user's situation.
So go ahead and change the text on that to go.
And then we just want to make sure that this is also centered and that is a certain distance from its
friends and that it kept the 16 like we had before.
So now with the name and the password here we want to make sure that we are not filling it with the
you know name initially in fact we want to have hints there that you know saying hey this should be
your email and this should be your password so we'll change that password delete the text there and
now we have sort of that greyed out email and password.
So let me go ahead and run this on my device to make sure I can get this up and running it's going to
take a while for that emulator to show up.
But with that in place let me go to and give proper names to these elements and or ID names so I'm going
to call this one e-mail text.
I'm going to call this one.
We'll say yes we want all those changes now let's go ahead and update the password here and we'll go
ahead and call this the password edit text.
Oh we seem to have lost our field there.
There we go.
So we're going to call this one the password
your password edit text.
Excellent.
And then for our go button I think we can simply just call the go button.
I know kind of a boring name but it works.
So we'll take our Go button here.
It will change its name to go button.
Now there's a few more things that we have to set.
And for example with this go button we need to have an on click function name there.
So let's just go ahead and change that to something like Go collect.
Now that seems like a fine enough name.
That is if Android studio is going to respond here.
It's like we're like stuck on a loop or something.
Well while that's working maybe I'll go ahead and work on these email and password edit text or the
email something nice that we can do for our users.
Is say you know what type of input they should be looking for and if we go ahead and change this from
a text person name if we change it to text e-mail address that's going to hopefully bring up the correct
keyboard and also if the user has with that autocomplete API that we talked about in an e-mail ready
to go we can go ahead and utilize that with the password same thing too.
We want to go ahead and uncheck text person name and we want text password.
I don't make it so it's all kind of you know hidden from the user's screen there.
And now that our app has finished here let's go ahead and see if we can't change what is on click is
and there we go.
That seemed to work a lot faster there.
All right so with that I think visually we have everything in place.
So let's go ahead and go to our main activity and the first thing I think that we should do is add the
function for when someone hits that go button.
So I'm going to add a new function and name that we had given it was go clicked.
So I'll go ahead and inside of here we're going to provide a view as the parameter here.
Let's make sure we get the auto complete on this.
So we get everything properly imported and then we'll go do our curly brackets.
OK.
So with this we now need to talk about how we can do some authentication things and we want to be able
to take you know someone's email and password that they entered and go ahead and use those.
Now in order to do that we have to get access to them so we're going to go ahead and provide some properties
here.
So the first one is going to be for the e-mail text.
So we're just going to say our e-mail and text guess I spell that correctly that text.
And we're going to say that this should be of type and text but we're going to make that an optional
and initially set that equal to no.
But here inside of our own created we'll will say.
All right.
E-mail and text.
We are going to set you equal to the fine view by Heidi.
The e-mail text.
Great.
We're going to do a very similar thing for the passwords so I'm just going to go ahead and copy paste
this and change this to password and that text.
And again almost the exact same thing here so it is copy and paste and this should be the password edit
text and I'll change that to say password text on the ID.
Now we have access to these two pieces of information but then we need to start working with the authentication
part of firebase.
So in order to do this let's go ahead and move back to our browser here and click on this button up
at the top that says go to Dock's firebase has some awesome documentation.
And I don't think that was supposed to download something I actually wanted to go to the link for docs
so just say you know they have good documentation they may have good documentation but they don't have
good
not a good Web site here.
This is not good.
So when the new tab I'm just going to search for firebase docs will kill it slow us down and look at
that.
OK now we're at the correct place.
So we wanted to work with Android so click on getting started for Android and if you see a page similar
to this.
This is what we're looking for on the left side it's going to list out all the different functionality
of firebase.
And then for example if we're working with authentication that's our log in stuff we type on authentication
go down here to Android.
And for example this getting started with the fire based STK.
This is where we want to go get some information.
So this is where we should move to.
So now it's going to tell us everything that we need in order to get up and running and it says Install
the firebase SDK get the firebase Cotts all the stuff we've done those options so we're good there but
next we need to add something to our cradle file here in order to download firebase off.
So there's a bunch of pieces of firebase and they've broken out into pieces so that you're not downloading
things that you won't necessarily use because we're using auth we have to copy this line of code and
we're going to go into our project and we want to go to the app level build that great also make sure
you're in the app folder.
Bill doc great.
And we are going to be adding a extra dependency.
And so here we're going to go ahead and paste this in to where it says compile and it's going to go
ahead and have that so let's do a sync now.
So it has a chance to go ahead and get that rolling.
But then let's talk about what we need in order to use this stuff so the first thing is the main object
that we're going to be working with is this firebase off that get instance it gives us this fire base
off that we're going to be calling off.
That's what they referred to it as in the documentation and I think that's a good way to use it moving
forward.
So let's get back to android studio here and we want to get to our main activity in up here where we
have our edit text all this good stuff.
We're going to add a vowel for this off and we're going to say them off is equal to capital firebase.
And if you've got the proper imports there you should be able to see firebase off.
And if you don't see firebase off you don't get that auto complete that probably means you need to go
back and check that you've got everything correct inside of your bill duct cradle and that you've done
the proper sinks.
But assuming that you have you've got firebase off don't get instance.
So this will now give us this off object that we can use to then start working on the log functionality.
So that's the first step.
Then next if we go over hope I keep open up chrome here I'm going to close chrome so I don't mistake
it I want to see Safari here.
Now with this the documentation from this point forward is amazing.
If you want to see the current sign in user to see if they're even signed in or not you can just simply
do this.
Emma Dockett current user if they're not signed in that will be equal to know.
They show you how to sign up new users how to sign in existing users how to get user information like
email display name all sorts awesome stuff and you can see on the left here they help you do Twitter
Facebook log in Google sign in all sorts of different things.
A phone number based app that would be really cool you know functionality but please explore the documentation
there's some awesome stuff here and I think Google's done a great job.
But if we talk about what it is that we're trying to accomplish with our app Well the first thing is
we want to know first off is if our user is actually signed in because if they're already signed in
we don't want them to have to re-enter in their information.
So let's go back to android studio here and inside of our create I think this is where we should check
and see if the users currently signed it.
So we're just going to do a little statement here in the if statement that we're looking for is we want
to take our em off object and we're going to do it get current user and we're going to see if this is
not equal to no.
So if it's not equal to no.
That means that we have a signed in user which then means we want to log in.
Well if we're going to log in let's go ahead and make a function that helps us to log in.
So I'm going to make a new function I'm just going to simply call it log in.
We don't need to pass in any parameters and I'm just going to call this log in function and this will
essentially move us to the next activity so for now we don't put anything in or log in function but
just know in the future we want to move to the next activity.
All right.
So with this in place that is sort of our first check to see if they're already signed and that's sort
of the easy thing.
But the next situation is when someone taps on this go button.
Right.
What is the process that we want to follow.
Well the first thing is we want to first check if if we can log in the user and then we'll say if that
doesn't work we are going to sign up the user.
That's sort of our flow.
So first check and see if we can log in the user and if we can't we're going to sign in the user.
So how do we go ahead and do a log in.
Well if we just go ahead and scroll down here sign in existing users there's this awesome documentation.
So I'm just going to go ahead and copy all this codes that's here.
It's a great starting point on the comeback and I'm going to paste it right in an awesome Android studio's
going to ask us and say hey do you want to convert this into Codlin.
Well it's supposed to ask us if we want to convert this into column let's try that one more time I'm
going to copy from here.
OK.
And Paste that and there we go says Do you want to convert to cotland.
I'll say yes and then I'll go off and do its thing.
Now there's a couple of pieces that are missing here so it's not exactly perfect but it's a good starting
point.
So the first one is is that em off there's this function called sign in with email and password where
it's looking for an email and a password.
So we want to go ahead and grab the information from the email edit text and password edit text and
put them there.
So first for email will say e-mail edit text dot and we want to go ahead and get the text that's inside
of there and then we'll go ahead and turn that into a string.
Same with the password.
We're going to say password edit text text not editable text text.
And when you want to go ahead and turn that into a string.
So with that then we get this all complete list and on which basically gives us back two options here
in one situation.
Everything worked out and that is this is successful.
And then the situation is if things failed.
So what we want to do is if things are successful well then very simply the only thing that we want
to do here is we just want to log in.
So I'm just going to call my log in function.
Boom that's it.
That's all we need to do now in the ELTs situation.
This is where we would want to then attempt to sign up the user because if they logged in tried to log
in and it didn't work then we need to say you know oh we need to sign up the user.
And so what we're going to do now is then go attempt to sign up the user.
So if you want to see what it's like to do this without copy and pasting if we just go back to our documentation
and we look at first signing up a user it's called create user with email and password.
So let's go back to this android studio and say am off thought create user with email and password and
you can see it's looking for two strings inside of here.
So we're going to use the two strings that we had before.
Again the email and the password so just go ahead and pass those in.
But then we need to add this dot add on complete Wessner.
So we're going to go ahead and do a dot at the end of this and say add on complete complete listener.
So go ahead and add one of those.
Then inside of this long complete list there's a few things that we've got to patch in and basically
we want to follow the same format that's here.
So we're going to go ahead and pass this for the current context just like we have above.
But then we want to do some curly brackets that allow us to move forward.
And so after our parentheses we're going to go ahead and add some curly brackets and then we need this
task with the arrow and so we'll go ahead and paste that in there.
And with this all in place then we can now run some code here.
And so one thing that I do want to point out with these e-mail edit text password texts.
Those have the chance to be knowable.
And so we'll go ahead and put a little question mark here and that's going to get rid of these errors
that we're seeing right now.
But with that in place and I'll be honest if you want to make a fully fledged professional app you should
probably do some more detailed checking of you know saying hey if we didn't if we got no back for the
e-mail password we should do some proper handling of that send user the correct message.
But in this case we're just trying to get to the point in the app where we can show you how to create
objects inside of firebase and stuff like that.
I mean you know you have those skills to go do that so we're not going to spend the time to do all that.
But with this in place then right.
So we've done this create user with email and password when we did this add on complete Lisner again
inside of here we want to break down some information so we have this task object that will tell us
whether or not things worked out.
So we're going to do an if statement just like above we're going to say if task dot is successful.
Well in this situation again we want to log in.
There's a little bit more information that we're going to have to do but we'll come back.
In fact I'm just going to leave a little message for myself and I'm just going to say add to database
that will make no sense right now but we'll come back here and talk about that in a moment.
And then if it's not successful in our situation well this is where we would want to tell the user that
something didn't go quite right and so I think a toast message maybe is the right way to do that.
So we're going to do a text message I will say make text and inside of your will just pass this and
the message that will display is maybe something like log in failed try again.
And then we go and after that we'll say how long we want to display this or say maybe toast length.
I like the length short and then we'll just do a dot show on the end of that tape.
So this appropriately will handle you know first we try and sign the user if that works plug them in
if it doesn't we'll try and create a user with the information provided that works.
We will log them in.
But if that doesn't work we will send a text message.
And really the last of that we need is to provide this log in functionality which is basically moving
to the next activity which we don't have another activity right now so we've got to go ahead and create
that.
So up in Android studio let's do file new activity.
Let's pick one from the gallery we just one empty one and I'm going to call this the Snap's activity
because remember after user logs in they should be able to see all of their snaps.
And so I'm going to go ahead and call this one Snap's activity will get finished there.
Now with this Snap's activity I can create the intent.
So I'm going to say vaule intent is equal to capital intent and inside of this intent I'm first going
to provide this as a context and then I'm going to say I want to move over to the Snapp's activity activity.
And with this we have to provide the class which in cotland it's a little bit different and let me go
ahead and make sure we important the intense stuff.
And then with this Snap's activity let's get our auto complete here here we're going to do colon colon
and then we want to do this class dot Java.
That's the way to appropriately get the class if we need to send it here with the intent.
And then we just simply want to start that activity so we can say start activity and we'll pass in that
intent.
OK so with this all in place we should have a fully functional log in page.
So let's go ahead and try this are going to hit run.
We'll get our emulator ready to show up here.
Go ahead and close this right and if you do get an error message I saw this the first time that I was
running the app we got a little bit of an issue here.
Oh we've got our own issues to work with.
Let's go ahead and see what's going on here.
J.D. K. looks like it may be imported some of the wrong things so I'm going to delete anyway.
There's an important read I'm just going to go ahead and delete those and we'll come fix any issues
that we're having.
I think maybe when we copy and paste the code it had just found it auto imported some information that
maybe we didn't need so let's go ahead and just see.
Now after removing those imports if that doesn't help us.
But again wanted to get back if you have some weird errors and if you look down and log cat and they
say something about Google Play services needed needing to be update that you don't have the right version
or something like that.
Well let me tell you what you need to do there.
If you go ahead with your app you click on this little three dots here the ellipses and go down to Google
Play.
You can hit this update button.
You're going to have to provide your Google username and password.
Say yes to the information they're going to ask you.
Option like do you want to save information on the device make sure that that is selected and sort of
switched over to.
Yes.
Should be the default option but don't switch that to no where else to get kind of in this nasty bug
which then you'd have to delete this emulator bring back a new one and try this whole process again
but make sure you get that in place.
But let's go ahead and see we've got one more issue here.
Failure for a task parameter view is never used.
Let me go ahead and see what's going on here.
So I'm not exactly sure what the issue was but what solved it for me in case you run into this is I
just did a build clean project and then I went and ran it on the emulator again had no issues so that
if that helps you that's what's going on here.
So with this in place let's go ahead and try and create a user and see what happens.
So I'm going to use Nick at Zappy co dot com and I'll make a password just ABC 1 2 3 4.
I'll go ahead and hit the go button here.
So you can see we get a log and failed try again and if we go to log cat we could try and get some information
there I'm going to save you from trying to go see what's going on.
Basically we need to go back to our fire base here and we need to move over and kind of set up the authentication
stuff.
So over here on the left we need to go to develop and then move down into authentication.
Now with this we have to set up a sign in method so if you go ahead and click on this we need to.
You can.
So remember all those options I said before like you can sign on with the phone.
Google Facebook Twitter whatever.
We're using e-mail passwords so we need to set this to enable.
So we'll go ahead and hit save there.
So now that this is enabled even without resetting the app or anything we can just go back to her emulator
here and now if I try and sign him like this it'll work.
Look at that.
I moved on to the next activity and if I go ahead and hit the back button now that a user has been created
and if you want to prove that one's been created go ahead and click on this user's tab here for authentication
and look there's that Nick at Zappy code that we have just created.
So if I go ahead and hit this button again now it will simply just sign in rather than creating a new
user and we are into our EP.
So this is a great place to stop at this point and the app will go ahead and talk about what we need
to do in the next lecture.